1.	Have you received “gold keywords” for this project? (Has someone provided keyword research?)
2.	Have you placed these “gold keywords” into the beginning of page title tag? 
3.	Does the meta content reflect these gold keywords (should focus on meta description tag; meta keywords not needed, or if anything don’t spam the meta keyword tag)
4.	Does the HTML copy include “gold keywords”
5.	Have you done your best to limit copy delivered in images?
6.	Do you have alt image tags included that reflect “gold keywords”?
7.	Have you created a URL that includes the “gold keywords”?
8.	Does the HTML H1 header tag content contain “gold keywords”
9.	Does the internal navigation anchor text that points to the new page contain “gold keywords”
10.	Are there any existing rel canonical tags in the meta content? If so, what are they? Why are they there?
11.	Is the new page URL queued for inclusion in the html & xml sitemaps?

How to research gold keywords:  

1.	What is the intent of the page, and how would a user search for it?
2.	Run those keywords through this tool and determine the popularity for those terms and like terms.
3.	Those that are most popular are more valuable and should jump up in importance
4.	Focus on 3-4 “gold keywords”

Google Keyword Tool:  https://adwords.google.com/o/Targeting/Explorer?__u=1000000000&__c=1000000000&ideaRequestType=KEYWORD_IDEAS#search.none


The requester will need to deliver the “gold keywords” in the page request in order to allow copy to craft the correct copy on the page, correct meta title, and meta description.  Meta keywords come from the keyword research the requester has already done.


This should stem any issues with “bad seo content”.

We had a blowup with canonical URLs as well, this stemmed from using a template for multiple pages, and not recognizing that a canonical link was used on the template originally.

Quick fixes I’d recommend:

1.	Prior to release, is there a canonical link on the page?  If so, should it be there?
2.	Are you moving the page, if so, use a 301, not a 302 (we are fond of this one).
3.	Is the URL SEO friendly, if not, the content submitter needs to provide the correct url using their gold keywords.


If at the end of the day you do the following:

Produce good SEO content
Produce good meta title/descriptions/keywords
Not shoot yourself in the foot with a bad canonical url
Produce a SEO friendly URL
Limit content that is delivered in an image
Use H1 tags properly

You will most likely solve 90% of issues. 

